[tutorials] Working with Lists tutorial (#730)
lit/lit.dev: packages/lit-dev-content/site/tutorials/content/working-with-lists/02.md

> We've see how we can use a `for ... of` loop to populate an array of templates

Reviewer: We

to render. However, Lit also provides a built-in
[`map`](https://lit.dev/docs/templates/directives/#map) directive for a

> more declarative way of writing templates.

Reviewer: I'd drill into this a bit more. Explain why the map directive exists it's declarative, provides something similar to the .map interface to generic iterables, and makes your code cleaner to read.

Reviewer 2: Thanks Elliott! The fact that `map` works on the `Iterable` type is quite powerful :P

[A quick playground experiment](https://lit.dev/playground/#project=W3sibmFtZSI6InNpbXBsZS1ncmVldGluZy5qcyIsImNvbnRlbnQiOiJpbXBvcnQge2h0bWwsIGNzcywgTGl0RWxlbWVudH0gZnJvbSAnbGl0JztcbmltcG9ydCB7bWFwfSBmcm9tICdsaXQvZGlyZWN0aXZlcy9tYXAuanMnO1xuXG5mdW5jdGlvbiogd2lsZEl0ZXJhYmxlKCkge1xuICBmb3IgKGxldCBpID0gMDsgaSA8IDQ7IGkrKykge1xuICAgIHlpZWxkIGk7XG4gIH1cbn1cblxuZXhwb3J0IGNsYXNzIFNpbXBsZUdyZWV0aW5nIGV4dGVuZHMgTGl0RWxlbWVudCB7XG4gIHJlbmRlcigpIHtcbiAgICByZXR1cm4gaHRtbGA8dWw-JHttYXAod2lsZEl0ZXJhYmxlKCksICh2KSA9PiBodG1sYDxsaT4ke3Z9PC9saT5gKX08L3VsPmA7XG4gIH1cbn1cbmN1c3RvbUVsZW1lbnRzLmRlZmluZSgnc2ltcGxlLWdyZWV0aW5nJywgU2ltcGxlR3JlZXRpbmcpO1xuIn0seyJuYW1lIjoiaW5kZXguaHRtbCIsImNvbnRlbnQiOiI8IURPQ1RZUEUgaHRtbD5cbjxoZWFkPlxuICA8c2NyaXB0IHR5cGU9XCJtb2R1bGVcIiBzcmM9XCIuL3NpbXBsZS1ncmVldGluZy5qc1wiPjwvc2NyaXB0PlxuPC9oZWFkPlxuPGJvZHk-XG4gIDxzaW1wbGUtZ3JlZXRpbmcgbmFtZT1cIldvcmxkXCI-PC9zaW1wbGUtZ3JlZXRpbmc-XG48L2JvZHk-XG4ifSx7Im5hbWUiOiJwYWNrYWdlLmpzb24iLCJjb250ZW50Ijoie1xuICBcImRlcGVuZGVuY2llc1wiOiB7XG4gICAgXCJsaXRcIjogXCJeMi4wLjBcIixcbiAgICBcIkBsaXQvcmVhY3RpdmUtZWxlbWVudFwiOiBcIl4xLjAuMFwiLFxuICAgIFwibGl0LWVsZW1lbnRcIjogXCJeMy4wLjBcIixcbiAgICBcImxpdC1odG1sXCI6IFwiXjIuMC4wXCJcbiAgfVxufSIsImhpZGRlbiI6dHJ1ZX1d)

> The previous example can be solved by first importing the `map` directive

Reviewer: make this a direction / command for the reader.

> The previous example can be solved by first importing the `map` directive. Import the `map` directive like so:

> ```ts

Reviewer: filename

import {map} from 'lit/directives/map.js';
```

> then placing the expression below in the template returned by the render method.

Reviewer: Make it a command:

> Then use the map method in the rendered template:

> ```ts

Reviewer: filename

The previous step showed how a `for ... of` loop can be used to populate an

> array of templates to render. However, Lit also provides a built-in
> [`map`](/docs/templates/directives/#map) directive for a
> more declarative way of writing templates.

Reviewer 3: +1
```suggestion
array of templates to render. However, Lit also provides a built-in
[`map`](/docs/templates/directives/#map) directive that will map
over any iterable, including `Map`s, `Set`s, and even
generators, in addition to arrays.
```

> The previous example can be solved by first importing the `map` directive.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The previous example can be simplified by first importing the `map` directive.
```
?

The previous step showed how a `for ... of` loop can be used to populate an
array of templates to render. However, Lit also provides a built-in
`map` directive for a more declarative way of writing templates. It provides
an interface similar to the `map` array prototype method for any generic
iterables, and can make code easier to read.

To solve the previous step by using it, first import the `map` directive.

{% switchable-sample %}

```ts
// my-element.ts
import {map} from 'lit/directives/map.js';
```

```js
// my-element.js
import {map} from 'lit/directives/map.js';
```

{% endswitchable-sample %}

Then use the directive in the rendered template.

{% switchable-sample %}

```ts
// my-element.ts
${map(this.items, (item) => html`<li>${item}</li>`)}
```

```js
// my-element.js
${map(this.items, (item) => html`<li>${item}</li>`)}
```

{% endswitchable-sample %}

> The index of the item is also made available to the callback function. Check

Reviewer 4: Let's try to add some guidance (re-emphasizing the point in the previous slide) about when you should do one way v. the other. E.g. something like... Use the `map` directive for simple cases that easily lend themselves to declarative description; use imperative code for more complex situations.

Author: Yes, that's good direction. Added.

Any valid JavaScript expressions that result in valid renderable values
described in the [expressions documentation](/docs/templates/expressions/) can

> be placed within the tagged template literal. When working with arrays, their

Reviewer 5: so the expressions have to be placed in template literal _expressions_. Saying that would be three "expressions" in one sentence though. Maybe the sentence could be reordered:

Lit template literal expressions can contain any JavaScript that returns a renderable value as described in...

The methods used in the previous steps are great when working with a single
iterable as a source of data but sometimes the situation might call for a more
imperative approach.

In this example, we have a string array property `members`, a string array
property `pets`, a boolean state `includePets` controlled by a button, and
another boolean state `includeSeparator` also controlled by a button. The

> desired result is to render a list item for each member but also include pets

Reviewer: The readers YEARN for instruction! suggest changing:

> The desired result is to render a list...

to:

> (insert newline) Render a list... so that...

Maybe even make it a bulleted list of tasks & requirements

also because writing the sentence in the infinitive case ("to render...") leads to weird sentence structure

if `includePets` is `true`, and some separating text between them if
`includeSeparator` is `true`.

Populate the `templates` array conditionally based on the boolean states
like shown below.

{% switchable-sample %}

```ts
// my-element.ts
const templates = [];
for (const member of this.members) {
  templates.push(html`<li>${member}</li>`);
}
if (this.includeSeparator) {
  templates.push('🐶 Pets 🐱');
}
if (this.includePets) {
  for (const pet of this.pets) {
    templates.push(html`<li>${pet}</li>`);
  }
}
```

```js
// my-element.js
const templates = [];
for (const member of this.members) {
  templates.push(html`<li>${member}</li>`);
}
if (this.includeSeparator) {
  templates.push('🐶 Pets 🐱');
}
if (this.includePets) {
  for (const pet of this.pets) {
    templates.push(html`<li>${pet}</li>`);
  }
}
```

{% endswitchable-sample %}

> It can then be placed inside the template returned from the render method.

Reviewer: Take command of this ship, captain!

> It can then be placed...

to:

> Now place...

{% switchable-sample %}

```ts
// my-element.ts
return html`
  ...
  <ul>
    ${templates}
  </ul>
`
```

```js
// my-element.js
return html`
  ...
  <ul>
    ${templates}
  </ul>
`
```

{% endswitchable-sample %}

Click the buttons to see if the conditional rendering is working properly.

<aside class="positive">

Remember that any valid JavaScript expressions can be placed within the tagged
template literal that result in valid renderable values described
[here](/docs/templates/expressions/). This could be a variable
containing an array of `TemplateResult` and strings as done here, an array
method call returning an array like seen in the previous step, or even an
invocation of a custom written function that returns something renderable.

<br>

> Try refactoring the code here to abstract out the logic from the `render` method

Reviewer: Also what is "here"
